### Type
- def  
A type is a set of values, along with operations that can be performed on those values.

- primitive types
int, long, boolean, double, char  

- object types

- Operations
	- def: Operations are functions that take inputs and produce outputs (and sometimes change the values themselves).
	- three different syntaxes
		- operator
		- a method of an object
		- a function

### Static typing
- statically-typed language  
The types of all variables are known at compile time (before the program runs), and the compiler can therefore deduce the types of all expressions as well.

- dynamically-typed languages
checking is deferred until runtime (while the program is running).

### Static checking, dynamic checking, no checking
- Static checking
	- def: the bug is found automatically before the program even runs.
	- can catch
		- syntax errors
		- misspelled names, like Math.sine(2). (The correct spelling is sin.)
		- wrong number of arguments, like Math.sin(30, 20).
		- wrong argument types, like Math.sin("30").
		- wrong return types, like return "30"; from a function that’s declared to return an int.
	- detect errors related to the type of a variable

- Dynamic checking
	- def: the bug is found automatically when the code is executed.
	- can catch
		- illegal arguments values i.e. devided-by-zero
		- illegal conversions i.e. Integer.valueOf("hello")
		- out-of-range indices
		- calling a method on a null object reference
	- errors caused by specific values

### Arrays and collections

### Iterating

### Methods
final
```java
public static List<Integer> hailstoneSequence(int n) {
    List<Integer> list = new ArrayList<Integer>();
    while (n != 1) {
        list.add(n);
        if (n % 2 == 0) {
            n = n / 2;
        } else {
            n = 3 * n + 1;
        }
    }
    list.add(n);
    return list;
}
```
Which variables can we declare final, because they are never reassigned in the code?
> int n  
> List<Integer> list  

n is reassigned many times in the code, for example by n = n / 2. So we can’t declare it final.

But list is only assigned once, to new ArrayList<Integer>(). Subsequently, even though we call add() on the list to add newly-discovered elements of the hailstone sequence, we never reassign the list variable to refer to a different list. So list can be declared final.

### Documenting assumptions
- Declaring a variable final
- two goals
	- communicating with the computer
	- communicating with other people

### goals
- safe from bugs
- easy to understand
- ready for change
